I need to get this to the market.
You don't support the army
of the Earth Kingdom?
What are you? Fire Nation?
We need to sell this crop
to make it through the winter.
The army has to make it
through the winter too.
and every civilian has to do their part.
- You know better than the Earth King?
- No...
Then we're commandeering half your cart.
And you can show us gratitude
for keeping you safe from all the baddies.
Stop!
Put them back.
Put them… back.
Azula! Leave 'em alone!
Look at that slow one.
I bet I can crack its shell.
Get off me!
- You'll hurt them!
- Zuko. get off!
I bet I can crack your shell.
Stop it. Azula. I'm not trying to hurt you.
Azula!
- She threw rocks at the turtle ducks.
- I was training.
That's enough.
Now. you are brother and sister. right?
So you have to settle your disputes
with respect and dignity.
Only if you are weak.
We are the descendants of mighty warriors.
They survived living by a code.
A fight. once begun.
only ends when one wins…
And one loses.
I said put them back.
Even in a case of imminent attack.
it's a violation of Army Code 27. Sec. 4
to commandeer livestock or foodstuff
from any home containing children.
Where'd you get that? Front lines?
Where's your uniform?
You wanna talk about uniform?
Hair five inches too long.
- It's hard to be fashionable out here.
- It's a breeding ground for lice.
Those pauldrons are mismatched.
Greaves. gauntlets. outdated.
And your boots.
What'd you do?
Commandeer them from some other civilian?
Well. they're small and rancid anyway.
Yes.
Give me that.
Don't be a stranger. stranger.
Thanks.
They've been getting worse lately.
You come from the war?
You're a real soldier. They're rejects.
My brother's a real soldier too.
He's stationed at Bin-Er. You been there?
Ever met a soldier named Sensu?
Sorry. kid. I…
I gotta keep moving.
Okay. yeah. but…
you gotta have dinner. right?
Dang it. Aang!
- Again?
- Did I scare you?
Yes! No. Aang did.
He always buzzes me with Appa
every time he comes back from a scout.
Is this the list of supplies
we need from Tau?
No.
- That is.
- Right.
You forgot to put
"earth bending teacher" on it.
One who understands neutral jing.
You should write that down.
Why neutral?
The positive jing's the best one. right?
No. jing is not good or bad.
It's just the way you do things.
So positive is moving forward?
Yeah. or like in a battle. it's attacking.
Like a punch.
Well. actually. if you wanna hurt him
and not yourself…
Thanks.
Okay. got it.
And the negative jing is like a block?
Or tactical retreat.
Yeah. Like living to fight another day.
But Aang needs to master the neutral jing.
What's that? Like standing there
and getting punched in the face?
No. of course not.
It's… waiting and listening.
The jing is kind of mysterious.
It's just "jing." not "the jing."
The jing sounds so much better.
Great news. I scouted the town.
And they have the supplies we need
to feed the refugees?
Sure. But even better.
They have
the world's biggest crocorhino egg.
Guys. it's gonna be great. Come on.
Well. be careful while I'm gone.
I'm never careful.
Hey. buddy.
Keep an eye on her.
Wait! Coming.
Wait.
Please! I don't know anything!
Wait! Wait. wait!
I'm going to ask you one more time.
Because I know they came through here.
Bald head.
Blue arrows.
Which way did they go?
Ty Lee. can he not talk?
Sorry. I didn't know
you still needed him to.
It's okay.
His eyes still work.
That wasn't so hard. now. was it?
But our place. it's kind of perfect.
'Cause it's far enough that
those goons get a backache chasing me.
but not so far
that the trip to the market's unbearable.
The market's small.
Ever seen a market so small?
You've probably seen bigger places before.
Hey. Fei.
That's Fei.
What's this now. Peng?
This is Li.
Li. this is my sister. Fei.
Li helped me at that stupid checkpoint.
You made it to the market?
Sold every single one.
Thanks to Li here.
Okay. well. thank the man. Peng.
so he can be on his way.
I said we'd give him dinner.
It's okay.
Just wanted to make sure
he made it home safe.
Come on. Fei.
He's a good man. You can trust him.
Okay. you want some dinner. then?
That means come in.
Aang. don't you think an Earthbender just…
…earth bent it?
Why? To fool people into
coming here to see it?
Come on. who'd do that?
It is making me hungry. Maybe it is real.
Then we better go get some food.
Unless you guys
wanna stay a little longer.
I've…
- I think I'm good.
- …observed it.
Yeah.
Greetings. I'm the Avatar Aang.
and these are my companions.
We are escorting a group of refugees.
and we are in great need of alms.
And steamed buns.
You want food? For free?
No. of course not. I'll gladly bless you.
your business. anyone you like.
I also do weddings.
No.
When the Air Nomads travel.
people usually take care of them.
I wasn't expecting this.
You didn't expect people to want money
for goods and services?
No.
There's got to be an easy way
to make some money fast.
Hey.
You could always win it
at Earth Rumble. kid.
What's Earth Rumble?
Bending match.
Prize purse tonight is gonna be huge.
The winner wins a lot of money?
And a purse?
Where is it?
In a little town called Nanya.
Nanya business!
- We can figure out where it is.
- Yeah. there must be an arena.
What if it's underground?
Like. actually underground.
Hey. Found out where it is.
- Follow me.
- How'd you get them to tell you?
A girl has her ways.
Let me guess.
Water bending.
One-trick panda pony.
Water tribe!
And… and then the guard knocked him down?
Peng. sit down and eat.
And then Li was like. "Your uniforms?"
"All wrong. Sloppy."
"This whole setup? Scam. No manners."
And that's when they almost fought Li.
but Li just stood there like.
"Give those flower potatoes back."
Take a breath. Peng.
Been a while since you ate?
Sorry.
No. No apologies.
I mean. you helped Peng.
The least we can do is
keep you dry and feed you.
Would you...
Right. The dishes.
Headed to Kudi Village?
Just looking for someone.
A friend?
Someone I used to fight with.
So why don't you wanna find them?
What do you mean?
You looked sad when I asked.
I'm not sad.
Just a little lost.
Our…
Our parents are away
with the ostrich horse for the night.
So the barn's empty.
That's very kind.
Hey. Zuzu.
Let me see.
I know it hurts. Zuzu. but.
I promise you
you're going to survive.
I am so proud of you.
Proud of me?
I lost. I'm a loser.
Zuzu. there are no winners or losers.
Only those who practice courage.
And those who stand up for what is right.
even when it's the hardest thing to do.
And you stood up
for those little turtle ducks.
That took courage.
I guess.
Do you know who else protects
the innocent?
The Blue Spirit?
That's right.
Can you tell me the story again?
Yes.
They called their protector
the Blue Spirit.
And no one knew if he was a spirit
or a man blessed by the spirits
for his good works.
He had two swords and a mask.
And a mask.
And though he hid his face.
he fought with eyes bright
and swords sharp
and a heart that was untainted
by hate or greed.
He said. "I will protect them.
big and small…".
"No matter the cost to me."
Is the Blue Spirit real. Mom?
As real as you and me. Zuko.
You're gonna be fine.
Of course I will. I'm the Avatar. after...
You're gonna be fine
if he doesn't do that.
Or that.
- They're just bluster and muscle.
- Lots and lots of muscle.
But nothing more.
The bigger the whale walrus...
The duller the tusks.
As long as you dodge.
keep your distance. they'll burn out.
Stay light. Pepper them with air punches.
Be annoying. Got it.
I can do that. I'm good at that.
Yeah. you are.
Yeah! Let's go!
A truly smashing victory by your favorite.
the greatest Earthbender
in the world. The Boulder!
- Yeah! The Boulder!
- Yeah!
Now. who out there has the stones
to challenge The Boulder for this purse?
No one can challenge him!
Wow. That's a lot of money.
And a nice purse.
You got this.
I got this. Win the money.
buy the supplies. feed the refugees.
The Boulder… welcomes all challengers.
But beware.
With great reward
comes great risk.
- You're ready. Aang.
- Don't die. Aang.
Why would you say that?
And she's back!
For the first time in weeks…
…it's the Blind Bandit!
The Boulder is amused
by this comical challenger.
Destroy her!
But it's time for you to go.
little Blind Bandit.
Hyah! Hyah!
You got this. Boulder!
No match!
A sly move.
The Boulder is conflicted.
Should he fight this tiny opponent…
Fight her!
…or release her back to whence she came?
Send her back!
What's the matter?
You scared. The Pebble?
Agh!
The Boulder is no longer conflicted.
Go. Boulder!
Is she actually blind?
Either way. she's amazing.
She's doing it.
Waiting and listening.
Just like Bumi said.
That's it? That's the neutral thing?
- Jing. Sokka.
- Yeah. the jing.
You got this. Boulder! You got it!
Don't let her get under your skin!
Come on. Boulder!
Maybe you should give up.
The crowd doesn't wanna see
two little girls fighting.
Come on. Boulder!
Yah!
Did The Boulder just squish a little girl?
Go. Blind Bandit!
That's her! She's my teacher!
- Aang. wait!
- Where are you going?
Excuse me. sorry.
Sorry. excuse me.
Excuse me. Sorry about that.
Sorry.
Excuse me.
- Aang!
- No. wait!
Can you believe that?
We need to find her. I need to...
Aang. breathe.
She's gone.
Avatar Aang. I am Ji Shen.
Executive Secretary to the Beifong family.
The Bei who?
That's the symbol
we've been seeing all over town.
The flying boar seal
of the Beifong family.
Lord and Lady Beifong's holdings are
as vast as the lands of the Earth Kingdom.
The Beifongs were great friends
to Avatar Roku
and wish to be the same to you.
Please. accept this invitation
to a light introductory meal
at Beifong Manor.
Whoa.
They're rich.
If they can feed us.
they can feed the refugees too.
Yeah.
What do you think. Aang?
Did I wake you?
No.
It…
Needed fixing.
It did.
I mean. since you have
such a long way to go and…
I mean. now that I… I know
you're clever-handed…
Well…
There's…
Plenty around here
that could use some fixing.
I mean.
more than I could get done
in a year on my own.
The big footprints go that way.
It's the sky bison
the Avatar's always seen with.
Its fur is everywhere.
Why bring something
that makes you so easy to track?
'Cause it seems all cute and fuzzy.
But this set of three tracks goes
the other way with no fur.
Follow the bison.
I'll follow the tracks towards that town.
You're going into an Earth Kingdom town?
Alone?
What. are you worried about me?
- Not about you getting hurt.
- Just about...
Me snapping
and burning the town to the ground.
leaving nothing behind me
but a trail of blood and ashes.
Seriously. though. you're…
you're not going to do that. right?
Of course not.
I am perfectly in control.
I will wait patiently
for the Avatar to lead me to Zuko.
We'll have a warm and brief reunion.
and then I'll tell him to come home.
Or else.
You're not still mad at me
for almost killing you. are you?
As long as you're not mad at me
for almost killing you.
No. I'm good.
What kind of trees are these anyway?
Wow.
This place is…
Yeah.
That's Kyoshi?
That's not to scale.
And my other past incarnations.
Roku. Kuruk. and Yangchen.
Those must be the past Beifongs.
I guess they really were friends.
- They don't have one of you yet. Aang.
- Avatar Aang.
At long last.
It's so wonderful to finally meet you.
For generations. the Beifongs have been
friends and benefactors of the Avatar.
as you can see.
You've clearly come a long way.
Thank you.
And it's wonderful to meet you too.
But we actually have another request.
We're traveling with a group of refugees
who are in great need
of food and supplies.
A most virtuous entreaty.
Does that mean you can help?
Now. Let's not discuss business
before dinner.
which will begin as soon as…
There's our little flower now.
This is our daughter. Toph.
It's the Blind Bandit.
Welcome. Avatar.
We pray you enjoy our most humble repast.
The Southern Water Tribe.
Meeting you both
is almost as rare a treat as the Avatar.
My dear husband is
an eternal student of the world
and its cultures and geography.
Well. a flexible mind holds both
wisdom of age and curiosity of youth.
What our gran gran always says.
Charming aphorisms from the South.
I will try to earn that compliment.
Thank you.
Ji Shen. make sure
Toph's soup is cool enough.
She's quite. delicate.
You're the best Earthbender
I've ever seen.
I'm sorry? Are you talking to me. Avatar?
Yeah. You're the Blind Bandit.
I think you're mistaking me
for some other blind girl.
Understandable. but still quite offensive.
Your homeland is fascinating.
Has there been any mining done there?
Well. we are really very self-sufficient.
We have a kind of harmony
with the lands and seas around us.
So you're saying that there are
vast. untapped resources in the South?
What my husband really wants to know
is what would it take for you
to open your borders for trade?
Our tribe's great and ancient history
is one of seafaring and trade. but that...
- That ended when the Fire Nation attacked.
- That's right.
The colonies and garrisons
on the islands around ours
make it impossible for our ships to pass.
Our ships move with more ease.
Business knows no borders.
Well.
in that case.
maybe we should be negotiating with you
about these supplies?
I noticed you're short one portrait
in your gallery.
Go on.
I need you to teach me earth bending.
The way you fought at the Earth Rumble...
I've never heard of that.
My goodness.
It sounds like a congregation of ruffians.
If he sits for a portrait.
my husband and I will gladly provide
all the supplies your sky bison can carry.
It's a deal.
Okay. I guess
you're a two-trick panda pony.
I used bending.
Bending their will.
Right?
You're a master of neutral jing.
You can teach me to wait and listen.
Then listen to this.
Shut your hole.
The Avatar has sullied himself.
Do help him tidy up. please. Ji Shen.
No. it's all right. I got it.
Marvelous!
Bravo!
As you can see.
I'm ready to learn the next element.
I just need the right teacher.
Who taught Toph to earth bend?
I'm sure she's very accomplished.
No.
Toph is our little flower.
Her fragile nature wouldn't agree with
all that stomping and brouhaha.
You mean. you don't…
No.
She's…
Having trouble breathing.
It's okay. He usually lands softly.
He'll be fine.
Are you unwell. Avatar?
- I was. but not anymore.
- Of course you are.
Now that your refugees
have everything they need.
we can welcome you into the warm
and potent embrace of the Beifong Clan.
I love a good embrace.
I didn't take you for a farmhand.
I've been
a lot of things lately.
It was right over there.
They were just out here working.
My mom and dad.
And my older brother
was already off with the army.
I was…
I was inside
when I heard the raised voices.
And…
I don't know how. but I knew it was them.
Fire Nation.
So I made Peng hide. and I
ran out to try to get to them.
'Cause. you know. I thought
if they knew that we were a family.
that… that there were kids here.
that they might… might not…
It happened so fast.
And even when I knew it was too late.
I still ran toward them.
And then he turned on me.
The one who did it.
I'm sorry.
I don't really know why I told you all that.
We've all lost things.
You don't need to be ashamed of your scar.
It means you made it out.
I need to get some more ties
from the barn.
Remember who you are.
Mama! Mama! Mama!
I have to go on.
We can't give you anymore.
We let you live. so hand the food over!
Stay back. I'll cut you! No!
- He flinches from conflict.
- Because he's kind.
Because he wants to help people.
He wants peace and justice.
We are bringing peace and justice
to the world under one rule.
and that takes strength.
Zuko lacks strength.
Sometimes strength is knowing when
to not fight.
You need to give him another chance.
You need to nurture his instincts
instead of just thwarting them.
Not in this family. Not in this world.
If our son refuses
to put his younger sister in her place.
well. then she will take his place.
- So you want them to hate each other?
- If that's what it takes.
There is a greater destiny in store for
both our children than you can imagine.
What do you mean?
You came to me
with an impeccable. strong bloodline.
And we promised
we would join our clans
and make a family together.
You gave me an heir.
And a spare.
An heir? What…
Iroh is in line for the throne.
Lu Ten is the heir. I…
- Leave my children's education to me.
- They're my children too!
I won't let you turn them into monsters.
Is that what you think I am?
A monster?
Get out of here!
I didn't mean to.
It's okay.
If you didn't. I would've.
There you are.
You and your big mouth
almost blew my cover with my parents.
Sorry. I just…
I really need an earth bending teacher.
Not my problem.
Shut up about it.
and leave me alone forever.
But my friend Bumi said that my teacher
would be a master of neutral jing.
Never heard of it. Get out of my way!
Pretty light on your feet. Twinkle Toes.
Stay on the ground where I can see you.
Is this better?
Yes.
Now turn around.
Walk back towards the gate.
And keep walking forever.
Okay. so you don't wanna be
my earth bending teacher.
So he's smart too.
But… I need to understand neutral jing.
And I've seen you do it.
Can you just show me how you earth bend?
I… I just do. …
- Who cares?
- I care.
Fine.
So. when I was little.
I ran away from home.
and I hid in this cave.
Why'd you run away?
I don't remember.
That's not an important part of the story.
The important thing is that. in this cave.
I met these… badgermoles.
I could feel them through the ground.
But what was weirder is that I could feel
that they knew I was scared.
They were blind. like me. so
we understood each other.
Earth bending. to them.
wasn't fighting.
It was how they interacted with the world.
How they created their own world.
So that's how they taught it to me.
as an extension of my senses.
Everything's vibrating.
All around us.
The world is turning.
There's water
in the rivers deep underground.
Squirrels run across tree branches.
Ants carry little bits of sand
through the moss.
We're all connected through the earth.
Even you.
I could feel the moment
you walked into my house. Twinkle Toes.
I bet the badgermoles made you feel safe.
Do you ever visit them?
No.
This was near our house we had in Gaoling.
We don't go there anymore.
I'm sorry.
My sky bison. Appa. is my closest friend.
If I ever lost him.
I don't know what I'd do.
Did you ever tell your parents all this?
They don't get it.
They don't want me to bend.
That's why we don't go to Gaoling anymore.
They're my parents. you know?
They're just trying to protect me.
But you can't be yourself here.
You could with us.
Okay. you clearly don't understand
how my family works.
You're born a Beifong.
and then you have to live your entire life
playing that role.
There's no getting out of it.
I was born the Avatar.
and I have to be the Avatar.
I don't have a choice.
Right.
You're an Avatar.
and I'm a Beifong.
Maybe I wouldn't have chose this either.
I could've just been an Air Nomad.
But.
I would've never met my two best friends
or traveled everywhere
or even seen
the world's largest crocorhino egg.
which Katara thinks is earth bent.
but she's wrong because it's real.
I respect your decision.
Right.
Good.
And…
I really hope you get to see
those badgermoles again.
The Avatar's here!
The Avatar is in the village!
Bet a lot of people are gonna be there.
We should sell our flower potatoes
and our melon yams.
Our cabbages. our tomatoes. and our kale.
Everything we have on the farm.
And then we can actually make some profit.
Zuko. Zuko. wake up.
- What's wrong?
- Wake up. We need to go. We need to go.
- It's too early. Or too late.
- Sh. my love. Come on.
Sh. Sh.
Sit. okay?
Sit here. Okay.
- Don't touch me.
- Sh. Azula!
You shush.
Yah!
Where's Dad?
Mom. where's Dad? Where's Dad?
Azula. stop. Quiet!
- Stop touching me!
- Honey. please stop!
- Stop!
- What's happening. Mom?
- It's okay.
- Mom…
Honey. listen.
I need you to promise me
that no matter what happens.
you stay together.
Promise me that. And you hold
that promise deep inside your heart.
We will. Mom.
Out. now!
Drop the reins!
- You remember who you are.
- Spread out!
And you take care of your sister. Okay?
I love you both so much.
No! No! No!
Mom! Mama!
I've been thinking about it. and I think
you have too much positive jing.
Thank you.
It's not a compliment. It's…
It's like whenever we're in danger
or a battle
or a giant sea serpent. for example.
you always just yell "follow me."
and just rush right in there.
You know? So…
- Right.
Well. I'm the leader
of the Kyoshi Warriors.
so it's customary for me to lead.
Yeah.
I just think you shouldn't be so reckless.
I think you know
I can take care of myself.
Do I? You… you almost got boiled alive
by a sea serpent.
I got grazed.
And Katara healed me. I'm fine.
Okay.
You know what? Just forget about it.
Wait. what's really going on?
No. if you don't wanna take
my fear seriously. it's fine. It's… We…
- Forget about it.
- Sokka.
Did something happen? After Kyoshi Island?
Something that's making you so worried?
I know Aang got captured. and Katara
was on the front lines in the North.
They talked to you about the North?
What'd they say?
Only what they went through.
Look. clearly
something heavy's going on with you.
And I just want you to know. I'm here.
I'll listen.
Nothing happened.
Why are there two Fire Nation girls
over there?
Hey!
You think that's the Waterbender
that's supposed to be with the Avatar?
Sokka. follow me.
Should we beat them up and find out?
Aah!
- Aah!
- Ha!
What did you do to me?
Just relax your chi for a hot sec.
You'll be fine. cutie.
What did you just do to me?
Not so tough without your bendies.
are you?
The face? Really?
She paralyzed me somehow.
They're after Aang.
He's back at the village.
We have to warn him.
Hello. Zuzu.
Azula.
What are you doing here?
Is that any way to greet your sister?
What have you done to your hair?
Stay out of my way.
You don't have to do that.
Capture the Avatar. I mean.
Father doesn't care about that anymore.
What do you mean he doesn't care?
He's pardoned you
for your treachery in the North.
and he's lifted your banishment.
Congratulations.
You're lying.
I wish I were.
I've been sent to retrieve you.
You've done your best. Zuzu.
We all know it.
And after all. that's what really counts.
Isn't it?
The Avatar is growing in power.
If he wants to win the war.
we need to catch him.
Don't question your Fire Lord.
He's commanded me to bring you home.
and I will do that.
One way
or another.
So you're running his errands now?
Yes.
Whatever errands he commands.
Conquer Omashu.
Fetch his fails on.
I don't know what game you're playing.
but I know
that you would never do anything
that would be good for me.
Get over yourself.
You don't register that high
on my list of concerns.
Is that why you recruited Zhao
to do your dirty work?
I don't know what
or to whom you're referring.
At least this time.
you had the dignity to come in person
to try to thwart my mission.
Your mission is meaningless.
Then take a seat while I finish it.
I'm not going back without the Avatar.
Don't be a fool. Zuko.
Look at the state of you.
I'm more powerful than you remember.
That might be the only earth bending
I ever learn.
Avatar!
Zuko?
I'm not finished with you!
This?
This is the Avatar?
Zuzu. he's a little boy.
Zuzu?
Who are you?
Can't tell?
I've been told
the family resemblance is strong.
"I will capture the Avatar
and restore my honor."
I've never said that!
Ya!
Aah!
Fei. look!
It's Li.
No. it's not.
Your arm's working again.
You were better than I thought.
Whoa!
Toph!
Why didn't you just tell me
there was gonna be real fighting involved?
Azula!
Stand down!
Not surprising you've aligned yourself
with the enemy. Zuko.
I know when I'm beaten.
A princess surrenders…
Ha!
Uncle!
Uncle.
- Zuko. I can help.
- Whoa. Whoa.
Leave us alone.
We should go now. okay?
But we could help.
- Leave!
- Let's go! Go.
Uncle…
So those were Firebenders?
Can't wait to get another shot at them.
Does this mean you're coming with us?
Toph!
What in the world are you doing out here?
I… I felt rumbling. so I came to find out
what was happening.
The Avatar was in a fight. I had to help.
You felt rumbling?
You're far too delicate
to engage in that activity.
I'm not delicate.
And I'm not a flower.
I'm a rock.
And I'm blind.
even if you don't wanna say it.
Just
listen to me.
This one time. Mom.
This is who I am.
We're giving you far too much liberty.
Put on your shoes. and come home… now.
I'm never wearing shoes again.
Come on. Avatar. I'm gonna teach you
to earth bend even if it kills me.
Can you stand?
Peng!
Get out of here. Firebender!
Listen. Uncle. we have to go now.
Come on. Come on.
Come on.
You'll get the rest on the safe return
of our kidnapped daughter.
The Boulder will do his best.
But the Beifongs' daughter
will be very hard to pin down.
She is tough and short
and very. very mean.
That's why Ji Shen shall accompany you.
Bring my daughter home to me
by whatever means necessary.